# Listen to the Clubhouse room here

# Paper 1

[Code Llama: Open Foundation Models for Code](https://ai.meta.com/research/publications/code-llama-open-foundation-models-for-code/)

Abstract

We release Code Llama, a family of large language models for code based on Llama 2 providing state-of-the-art performance among open models, infilling capabilities, support for large input contexts, and zero-shot instruction following ability for programming tasks. We provide multiple flavors to cover a wide range of applications: foundation models (Code Llama), Python specializations (Code Llama - Python), and instruction-following models (Code Llama - Instruct) with 7B, 13B and 34B parameters each. All models are trained on sequences of 16k tokens and show improvements on inputs with up to 100k tokens. 7B and 13B Code Llama and Code Llama - Instruct variants support infilling based on surrounding content. Code Llama reaches state-of-the-art performance among open models on several code benchmarks, with scores of up to 53% and 55% on HumanEval and MBPP, respectively. Notably, Code Llama - Python 7B outperforms Llama 2 70B on HumanEval and MBPP, and all our models outperform every other publicly available model on MultiPL-E. We release Code Llama under a permissive license that allows for both research and commercial use.

# Paper 2

[SeamlessM4T: The first, all-in-one, multimodal translation model](https://bit.ly/3shkZoR)

[Code](https://github.com/facebookresearch/seamless_communication)

Abstract

What does it take to create the Babel Fish, a tool that can help individuals translate speech between any two languages? While recent breakthroughs in text-based models have pushed machine translation coverage beyond 200 languages, unified speech-to-speech translation models have yet to achieve similar strides. More specifically, conventional speech-to-speech translation systems rely on cascaded systems composed of multiple subsystems performing translation progressively, putting scalable and high-performing unified speech translation systems out of reach. To address these gaps, we introduce SeamlessM4T—Massively Multilingual & Multimodal Machine Translation—a single model that supports speech- to-speech translation, speech-to-text translation, text-to-speech translation, text-to-text translation, and automatic speech recognition for up to 100 languages. To build this, we used 1 million hours of open speech audio data to learn self-supervised speech representations with w2v-BERT 2.0. Subsequently, we created a multimodal corpus of automatically aligned speech translations, dubbed SeamlessAlign. Filtered and combined with human- labeled and pseudo-labeled data (totaling 406,000 hours), we developed the first multilingual system capable of translating from and into English for both speech and text. On Fleurs, SeamlessM4T sets a new standard for translations into multiple target languages, achieving an improvement of 20% BLEU over the previous state-of-the-art in direct speech-to-text translation. Compared to strong cascaded models, SeamlessM4T improves the quality of into-English translation by 1.3 BLEU points in speech-to-text and by 2.6 ASR-BLEU points in speech-to-speech. On CVSS and compared to a 2-stage cascaded model for speech- to-speech translation, SeamlessM4T-Large’s performance is stronger by 58%. Preliminary human evaluations of speech-to-text translation outputs evinced similarly impressive results; for translations from English, XSTS scores for 24 evaluated languages are consistently above 4 (out of 5). For into English directions, we see significant improvement over Whisper- Large-v2’s baseline for 7 out of 24 languages. To further evaluate our system, we developed Blaser 2.0, which enables evaluation across speech and text with similar accuracy compared to its predecessor when it comes to quality estimation. Tested for robustness, our system performs better against background noises and speaker variations in speech-to-text tasks (average improvements of 38% and 49%, respectively) compared to the current state-of-the-art model. Critically, we evaluated SeamlessM4T on gender bias and added toxicity to assess translation safety. Compared to the state-of-the-art, we report up to 63% of reduction in added toxicity in our translation outputs. Finally, all contributions in this work—including models, inference code, finetuning recipes backed by our improved modeling toolkit Fairseq2, and metadata to recreate the unfiltered 470,000 hours of SeamlessAlign —are open-sourced and accessible at https://github.com/facebookresearch/seamless_communication.

# Paper 3

[DLIP: Distilling Language-Image Pre-training](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12956)

Abstract

Vision-Language Pre-training (VLP) shows remarkable progress with the assistance of extremely heavy parameters, which challenges deployment in real applications. Knowledge distillation is well recognized as the essential procedure in model compression. However, existing knowledge distillation techniques lack an in-depth investigation and analysis of VLP, and practical guidelines for VLP-oriented distillation are still not yet explored. In this paper, we present DLIP, a simple yet efficient Distilling Language-Image Pre-training framework, through which we investigate how to distill a light VLP model. Specifically, we dissect the model distillation from multiple dimensions, such as the architecture characteristics of different modules and the information transfer of different modalities. We conduct comprehensive experiments and provide insights on distilling a light but performant VLP model. Experimental results reveal that DLIP can achieve a state-of-the-art accuracy/efficiency trade-off across diverse cross-modal tasks, e.g., image-text retrieval, image captioning and visual question answering. For example, DLIP compresses BLIP by 1.9x, from 213M to 108M parameters, while achieving comparable or better performance. Furthermore, DLIP succeeds in retaining more than 95% of the performance with 22.4% parameters and 24.8% FLOPs compared to the teacher model and accelerates inference speed by 2.7x.
